# project - Scusi (Small Platformer on Javascript)

What is Scusi?

  Scusi is a online platformer type game that is base in JavaScript. We, the creators of Scusi – Spas Zidarov and Kristiyan Chakarov, really enjoy these types of games, that’s why we decided to create our own version. The idea is taken from games such as – N,  N+ , N++ and  Super Mario, although it is a lot simpler in terms of graphics and difficulty of the levels. The game is mostly written in JavaScript, but we have used CSS for all the colors and visuals for the game.

  The first thing you will see as you play the game is the map. To create the levels we have used a series of strings containing special characters that correspond to all the different textures and entities in the game. The characters are: “@” - Player start position; “o” - Coins; “x” - Solid surfaces; “!” - Non-moving water; “=” - Vertical moving water; “v” - Dripping water; “|” - Horizontal moving water; “ ” - Blank space. The levels are made by hand and are saved in a array of string. Then in a function every level which corresponds to an element in the array and is read by the function and then displayed by a html file.

  After the the map has been created and the game has been started two functions make sure that all the textures and all the entities are at the right place as the level suggest. The first function is responsible for all the non movable objects such as – non movable water, walls, ceiling(the very top of the map) and floor(the very bottom of the map). The second one is in control of all the movable objects such as – the player, the dripping water and the vertical and horizontal moving water(no very realistic for water but the easier to code :D). There is also a function that calculates the animation of the player and it uses the keys that are pressed to know what direction to animate the movement and a variable that takes the time in seconds to be able to make the animation smooth.

  The next thing you want to do as you play the game is to collect all the coins and be careful what your player touches. All this is handled by a function. If you touch a coin a counter rises by one until you reach the number of all the coins in the level, then the level is changed to the next one, but if you touch the bottom of the map – the floor, or the water a counter is lower by one until it reaches zero – these are your life points and you start with 3 live.
